.TH CRCONF 8 "16 March 2012" "crconf" "Linux"
.SH NAME
crconf \- Linux cryptoapi configuration tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crconf COMMAND OBJECT 

.B COMMAND := { add | del | update | show }

.B OBJECT := { alg | driver | all }

.B crconf { add | del | update } driver 
"DRIVER"
.B { type
"TYPE"
.B | priority
"PRIORITY"
.B }

.B crconf { add | del } alg
"ALG"
.B type
"TYPE"

.B crconf show { all | driver
"DRIVER"
.B }

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crconf
is a small commandline tool to configure the Linux crypto layer.
Basically it is used change the system default configuration of the
crypto layer in the Linux kernel.

.SH ALGORITHMS AND ALGORITHM DRIVERS
The crypto algorithms or algorithm drivers are specified by the string
that identifies the algorithm or the driver in the kernel. E.g. an algorithm
would be "sha1". A driver is a certain implementation of an algorithm e.g.
"sha1-generic" for the generic C implementation of sha1.

.SH ALGORITHM TYPE
The algorithm types are defined in the linux kernel in include/linux/crypto.h.
The parameter for the type argument is one of the following numbers (linux-3.3):

CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_CIPHER          1
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_COMPRESS        2
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_AEAD            3
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_BLKCIPHER       4
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_ABLKCIPHER      5
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_GIVCIPHER       6
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_DIGEST          8
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_HASH            8
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_SHASH           9
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_AHASH           10
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_RNG             12
.br
CRYPTO_ALG_TYPE_PCOMPRESS       15

.SH ALGORITHM DRIVER PRIORITY
The priority of an algorithm driver determines which driver will be used if
there are more than one algorithm drivers present for the same algorithm.
The parameter of the priority argument is an unsigned integer. The driver
with the highest priority is used.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B add
Add an instance of a crypto algorithm or driver.
.TP
.B del
Delete an instance of a crypto algorithm or driver.
.TP
.B update
Update an instance of a crypto algorithm driver.
.TP
.B show
Show all instantiated crypto algorithms (drivers) or a certain algorithm driver.

.SH OBJECTS

.TP
.B alg
Configure a crypto algorithm. Valid commands are
.B add
and
.B del.
.TP
.B driver
Configure a crypto algorithm driver. Valid commands are
.B add,
.B del
.B update,
and
.B show.
.TP
.B all
Only valid for the
.B show
command.

.SH AUTHOR
Steffen Klassert <steffen.klassert@secunet.com>
